This repo is created for the revature CTS training on Unix, JavaFS, PythonFS, Cloud and DevOps at PES Mandya premises, started on Monday 22nd December 2025

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE(SDLC) Types: Waterfall Model: The waterfall model is a Software Development Model used in the context of large, complex projects, typically in the field of information technology. It is characterized by a structured, sequential approach to Project Management and Software Development. Flow:

Requirements → Design → Development → Testing → Deployment → Maintenance

Features of Waterfall Model: ->Sequential Approach ->Document-Driven ->Quality Control ->Rigorous Planning

Advantages: ->Simple and easy to manage ->Best when requirements are fixed

Disadvantages: ->No flexibility ->Late testing ->Not suitable for changing requirements

Diagram image

V-MODEL=The SDLC V-Model is a type of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). It is a method that includes testing and validation alongside each development phase. The V-shaped model is also known as validation and verification model or the Waterfall with Verification and Validation Model, is a software development process model that extends the traditional Waterfall Model. In v-shaped model,the development process is divided into sequential phases, similar to the Waterfall Model.However, each development phase is followed by a corresponding testing phase, forming a "V" shape when visualized on a diagram.This testing phase ensures that each stage of development is thoroughly verified and validated before progressing to the next stage. The V-Shaped Model places a strong emphasis on the verification and validation of the software, aiming to detect and address defects and issues early in the development process. It is particularly well suited for projects with well-defined and stable requirements, where rigorous testing and quality assurance are critical.

Phases of SDLC V-Model: The V-Model, which includes the Verification and Validation it is a structural approach to software development. The following are the different Phases of the V-Model of the SDLC.

V-Model Verification Phases: This is where the process begins. The first step is to gather and understand the customer’s needs for the software. The goal is to define the scope of the project clearly to make sure everyone is on the same page. It involves a static analysis technique (review) done without executing code. It is the process of evaluation of the product development phase to find whether specified requirements are met. There are several Verification phases in the V-Model:

Business Requirement Analysis

System Design

Architectural Design

Module Design

Coding Phase

V-Model Validation Phases: Unit Testing Integration testing System Testing User Acceptance Testing (UAT)

Advantages of V-Model: This is a highly disciplined model and Phases are completed one at a time. V-Model is used for small projects where project requirements are clear. Simple and easy to understand and use. This model focuses on verification and validation activities early in the life cycle thereby enhancing the probability of building an error-free and good quality product. It enables project management to track progress accurately. The V-Model provides a clear and structured process for software

Disadvantages of the V-Model: The V-Model is a linear and sequential model, which can make it challenging to adapt to changing requirements or unforeseen events. The V-Model can be time-consuming, as it requires a lot of documentation and testing. High risk and uncertainty. It is not good for complex and object-oriented projects. It is not suitable for projects where requirements are not clear and contain a high risk of changing.
